# Game-of-Life

My application simulates the game, Game of Life using vba in excel. The game is within a hardcoded border. The game board already exists when the worksheet is opened. On the worksheet there are two buttons, a start button and a reset button. The reset button resets the cells on the board to the original position. When the user clicks on the start button, a Userform is shown that allows them to enter a username and how many times they want the simulation to run which is called generation. If the player clicks start then the game begins otherwise the game is exited. The game starts in a specific position and the cells positions are also hardcoded. The cells are then moved in accordance to the rules of the game. Once the specified amount of generation is completed, the following data is written to a database: username, date, time it took the game to run (Game Length) and the number of generations the user specified (Generation). The board is also reset to the default position. After that, a message is displayed informing the player that the game is over and the board has been reset. 

At any point in time, the player can create a report. The report consists of a new protected worksheet in the same workbook as the game called “Report” and a Word document called “Overview”. The worksheet contains all the Game Length and Generation information that is in the database. It also contains a scatter plot chart (“Report Chart”) that shows the relationship between the generation and game length. The Word document contains only the chart created in the report worksheet. The chart on the word document is linked to the Report worksheet. 

See Manual.docx for instructions on how to play the game 
